---
title: Countries
---

The countries resource in the OpenAQ API lists countries in the data set and 
details the air quality parameters available for each. The countries resource 
only include countries which have monitoring locations available in them in 
OpenAQ. Countries are derived from the coordinates provided by the upstream 
provider. OpenAQ does not use the same country label as reported by the upstream
provider and may differ from the original data source, see the data disclaimer
below.

## Purpose and Use

The countries resource helps users discover which countries are in the OpenAQ 
data set. It also shows the air quality metrics for each country. This makes it 
easier to filter and analyze air quality data by country and understand global 
trends.

The key fields for indentifying a country in OpenAQ are:

* id - the unique identifier used within the OpenAQ system for a particular 
country.
* code - the ISO 3166-1 alpha 2 code for the country.
* name - The English name of the country

## Example response payload

```json
{
  "meta": {
    "name": "openaq-api",
    "website": "/",
    "page": 1,
    "limit": 100,
    "found": 1
  },
  "results": [
    {
      "id": 42,
      "code": "KZ",
      "name": "Kazakhstan",
      "datetimeFirst": "2018-07-27T17:00:00Z",
      "datetimeLast": "2024-08-31T21:07:06.731Z",
      "parameters": [
        {
          "id": 1,
          "name": "pm10",
          "units": "µg/m³",
          "displayName": null
        },
        {
          "id": 2,
          "name": "pm25",
          "units": "µg/m³",
          "displayName": null
        },
        {
          "id": 19,
          "name": "pm1",
          "units": "µg/m³",
          "displayName": null
        },
        {
          "id": 98,
          "name": "relativehumidity",
          "units": "%",
          "displayName": null
        },
        {
          "id": 100,
          "name": "temperature",
          "units": "c",
          "displayName": null
        },
        {
          "id": 125,
          "name": "um003",
          "units": "particles/cm³",
          "displayName": null
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

```

:::caution[Disclaimer]
OpenAQ labels moniroting locations with a country label based on the [Natural 
Earth Admin 0](https://www.naturalearthdata.com/) 10m dataset v5.1.2. 
These boundaries may not be able to correctly label every station and may 
require manual or "fuzzy" matching due to the coarse precision of the data and 
differences in the precision of reported coordinates. Definitions of 
international boundaries can be complex, dependent on worldview, and politically
polarizing. The use of these boundaries does not constitute or imply their 
endorsement by OpenAQ. Read more about Natural Earth’s disputed boundaries 
policy at https://www.naturalearthdata.com/about/disputed-boundaries-policy/. 
:::