---
title: Terms of use
---

## Introduction

Welcome to OpenAQ, a data repository of open air quality data aggregated from
sources across the globe. This page explains the terms for using data on the
OpenAQ Platform (Terms of Use for Data Users) and the terms for sharing data on
the OpenAQ Platform (Terms and Conditions for Data Publishers), together
referred to as “Terms”.

Please read these Terms carefully. By using the OpenAQ Platform or by sharing
data on the OpenAQ Platform, you acknowledge that, without limitation or
qualification, you have read, understood, and agreed to the Terms and any future
modifications to the Terms and to the collection and use of your information as
set forth in our [Privacy Policy]().

OpenAQ reserves the right to modify these Terms without notice, in whole or in
part, at our sole discretion. If we change these Terms, we will post the changes
here and any changes shall become effective as of the time they are posted. Your
continued use of the OpenAQ Platform or continued sharing of data on the OpenAQ
Platform will signify your continued agreement to these Terms as they may be
revised.

## OpenAQ Terms of Use for Data Users

As a condition of using the OpenAQ Platform, you warrant to OpenAQ that you
agree to these Terms of Use, including any future modifications by us. You also
warrant that your use complies with all applicable laws where you are located.
If you do not accept these Terms of Use, do not use the OpenAQ Platform.

### Using the OpenAQ Platform

For programmatic access to data on the OpenAQ Platform or to use certain
features on OpenAQ Explorer, users must register for an API key and account.

- Users must provide a valid email address during the registration process. This
  email address must not be from a temporary or disposable email service.

- To maintain the integrity and fair usage of our services, each user is
  permitted to register for only one API key. Multiple registrations by a single
  user or entity are prohibited. This policy ensures equitable access to our
  resources and prevents abuse or overconsumption of our services. Users found
  to be in violation of this term may have all associated API keys revoked and
  may face permanent suspension from our platform. We monitor usage patterns to
  detect and prevent such activities, ensuring a balanced and fair environment
  for all users.

- As an account user, you acknowledge that you are responsible for all activity
  occurring under the use of your account. You are responsible for maintaining
  the security of your account and password. Unauthorized use of your API key,
  including transfer to another user, is prohibited.

To safeguard the integrity and security of our data platform, downloading data
is strictly prohibited unless done through registered and authorized use. Users
must utilize provided APIs, export functions, or other officially sanctioned
methods for accessing data. Unauthorized methods, including but not limited to
scraping data from visualizations or other interface elements, are expressly
forbidden. Violations of this policy will result in immediate suspension of
access, revocation of user credentials, and potential legal action. This measure
ensures that our data remains accurate, secure, and available for legitimate,
registered users.

Users are permitted to run, modify, and self-host the open-source software
components of our tooling, including the API codebase, in accordance with the
applicable open-source license. However, utilizing our official, hosted API
implementation to develop products or services that substantially duplicate or
directly compete with OpenAQ's core offerings is prohibited. This restriction
applies specifically to the use of our hosted API service, not to self-hosted
instances or modified versions of the open-source code. Users leveraging our
hosted API agree to do so in a manner that complements rather than replicates
our primary services. OpenAQ reserves the right to suspend or terminate access
to our hosted API for users found to be in violation of this clause. This
provision does not limit the rights granted under the open-source license for
the software itself, but governs the use of our hosted API service.

## Intellectual Property and Attribution

OpenAQ aggregates air quality data from government agencies and other sources.
We only aggregate data that, to the best of our knowledge, has been made
available for redistribution and use throughout the world. However, we provide
no assurance that the data provided may be used free of any third-party claims.
In some jurisdictions, copyright and/or laws and regulations may apply to OpenAQ
source data.

We provide attribution to the source of data wherever required and whenever
possible via our web interface and APIs. Users of the OpenAQ platform are solely
responsible for their use of the data and for compliance with any applicable
laws and third-party terms. OpenAQ users must therefore review and comply with
any terms published by data providers.

A number of our sources provide their air quality data under terms that require
source attribution—sometimes under Creative Commons licenses or open government
licenses, and sometimes under bespoke terms. Regardless of such requirements, we
believe in the importance of attributing data sources. For this reason, OpenAQ
provides attribution, often in the form of a URL, to the underlying source of
data ingested onto the platform. When required, OpenAQ users must acknowledge
the original source(s) of any data they use, following the provider’s terms, and
OpenAQ encourages users to acknowledge all original sources, even if the source
does not require it.

Attribution to OpenAQ as the source data is also required when using OpenAQ
services for accessing the data.

## Considerate Use

You may not use the OpenAQ Platform in any manner which could damage, disable,
overburden, or impair the Platform or interfere with any other party’s use and
enjoyment of the Platform. For example, through your use of the API key you
agree not to, at OpenAQ’s sole discretion, use an unreasonable amount of
bandwidth and not leave requests running in perpetuity if data is no longer
needed.

## Access to Higher Rate Limits

Anyone wishing to access OpenAQ Platform at rates higher than the documented
rate limit must comply with the payment terms and API License and Services
Agreement required by OpenAQ.

## Disclaimer

IMPORTANT: Although OpenAQ strives to make the aggregated data true to its
source and as useful as possible, we cannot guarantee its accuracy or
suitability for any user’s purpose, and any use of the data is at the user’s own
risk. Data from the OpenAQ Platform is offered as-is, without warranty of any
kind, whether express or implied, including all implied warranties of
merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, and non-infringement.
OpenAQ makes no guarantee that the OpenAQ Platform or data will meet any user’s
requirements, operate without interruption, achieve any intended result, or be
accurate, complete, or error-free.

OpenAQ reserves the right to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently,
the OpenAQ API with or without notice at any time. You agree that OpenAQ shall
not be liable to your or to any third party for any modification, suspension or
discontinuance of the OpenAQ API.

## Code of Conduct

By using the OpenAQ Platform you acknowledge and agree to abide by the
principles in our
[Code of Conduct](https://github.com/openaq/openaq-info/blob/main/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md).

## Violation of Terms of Use for Users

If a user is found to be in violation of the Terms of Use, OpenAQ reserves the
right to suspend or terminate access to the platform.

# OpenAQ Terms and Conditions for Data Publishers

OpenAQ aggregates third-party air quality data that is in the public domain or
has been shared freely by data publishers who choose to share their data with
OpenAQ to redistribute via the OpenAQ Platform.

In the latter case, the data publisher grants a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable license to reproduce, adapt,
publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the data and any
derivative works. The form, nature, and content of the data available through
the Platform may change without any notice to the data publisher. OpenAQ may
also remove access to the data at any time without any notice to the data
publisher.

If you believe your data has been provided through the OpenAQ platform without
your permission, please see our
[DMCA (Copyright Infringement) Policy](https://openaq.org/dmca/).
